# System-Analysis-and-Design

The DriverPass project was designed for a client (the business owner of DriverPass).  The purpose of this system was to allow for users the online capability of taking driver training courses to better prepare themselves for to get their license.  In addition, the system would allow the user to make and modify appointments, choose from 3 different packages that contained differing levels of training which included online study material, practice tests, and the option of in-person on the road training.  Other users who would interact with the system on the front end would be the receptionist of the business as well as the driver-trainers.  The system was to be cloud-based, would handle business transactions, require login credentials, and would require robust security for personal and financial information.

I was able to conceptualize the functional and nonfunctional requirements for the user interface, understand the objective and goal of the system from the outset, and outline using various diagrams the flow of data for certain elements of the system.

If there is one thing I could revise, I would choose the technical requirements.  My initial list of the technical requirements had more of an over-arching element as opposed to more detail-oriented, specific requirements.  I would home in on certain OS, graphical, and hardware requirements for the system to function.

The needs of the user were defined during the initial interview where the business owner laid out what he wanted the system to do.  Some probing questions were asked for clarification and further detail when necessary in order to ascertain exactly what the business owner deisred.  It isn't until we understand exactly the user needs that we can create a system or product tailor-made for them.  It is important to get a well-rounded and detailed idea and end goal so developers and testers can work with confidence and a goal-oriented mindset.

Designing software has several phases such as planning, analyzing, designing, implementing, and maintaining.  Each of these phases comes with its own set of unique and integral goals.  We must lay the groundwork for the project - gain as much detail and information from the user as possible in order to set an end goal, set a budget, set a timeframe, and understand and lay out any constraints.  Discuss with developers what is realistic and what is not within these parameters.  As the developing team begins designing, parties involved in system design should keep in close communication with the development process as well as communicate with the stakeholders.  No man is an island unto himself, and this is especially true throughout the system development.  With a clear end goal, realistic and exact parameters set in place, and a team that is goal-oriented, collaborative, and communicative, the proper analysis and design of a system will be the achievable end.
